Docs: Update plugin installation and CLI (#21179)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/cli.md

# Grafana CLI

Grafana CLI is a small executable that is bundled with Grafana server and is supposed to be executed on the same machine Grafana server is running on.

> Grafana CLI has `plugins ` and `admin` commands, as well as global options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana CLI has `plugins` and `admin` commands, as well as global options.
```

To list all commands and options:
```
grafana-cli -h
```

**Linux users**
Some commands, such as installing or removing plugins, require `sudo` in order to run.

**Windows users**
Enter commands in Windows PowerShell, preceded by `.\`. They will not work on the regular command line.

Some commands, such as installing or removing plugins, require you to run Windows PowerShell as Administrator. 

> Before you enter commands, `cd` into the plugins directory. The default path is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you enter commands, `cd` into the Grafana bin directory. The default path is:
```

```

### Display Grafana CLI version

`--version` or `-v` prints the version of Grafana CLI currently running.

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli -v
```

### Override default plugin directory

`--pluginsDir value` overrides the path to where your local Grafana instance stores plugins. Use this option if you want to install, update, or remove a plugin somewhere other than the default directory ("/var/lib/grafana/plugins") [$GF_PLUGIN_DIR].

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --pluginsDir "/var/lib/grafana/devplugins" plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Override default plugin repo URL

`--repo value` allows you to download and install or update plugins from a repository other than the default Grafana repo.

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --repo "https://example.com/plugins" plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Override default plugin .zip URL

`--pluginUrl value` allows you to download a .zip file containing a plugin from a local URL instead of downloading it from the default Grafana source.

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --pluginUrl https://company.com/grafana/plugins/<plugin-id>-<plugin-version>.zip plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Override Transport Layer Security

> `--insecure` allows you to turn off Transport Layer Security (TLS) verification (insecure). You might want to do this if you are downloading a plugin from a non-default source.

Reviewer: We should note here that we don't recommend this as it is a security risk.

Author: Added a warning.

### List available plugins

```bash
grafana-cli plugins list-remote
```

### Install the latest version of a plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Install a specific version of a plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins install <plugin-id> <version>
```

### List installed plugins

```bash
grafana-cli plugins ls
```

### Update all installed plugins
```bash
grafana-cli plugins update-all
```

### Update one plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins update <plugin-id>
```

### Remove one plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins remove <plugin-id>
```

## Admin commands

Admin commands are only available in Grafana 4.1 and later.

### Show all admin commands

```bash
grafana-cli admin
```

### Reset admin password

`grafana-cli admin reset-admin-password <new password>` resets the password for the admin user using the CLI. You might need to do this if you lose the admin password.

If there are two flags being used to set the homepath and the config file path, then running the command returns this error:

> Could not find config defaults, make sure homepath command line parameter is set or working directory is homepath 

> To correct this, use the `--homepath` global option to specify the Grafana default homepath for this command:

Reviewer: This seems like an edge case we should fix vs having it in the docs.

Author: @daniellee?

Reviewer 2: Sounds like this issue: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/17735

I agree with Dan that this is something we should just fix but I don't want to hold up this PR review as this is unlikely to be fixed for the 6.6 release.

@marefr @bergquist what do you think about adding this to your backlog for the next major release?

Author: I support this, as long as we remember to go back and update the docs once it is fixed.

```

### Install a specific version of a plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins install <plugin-id> <version>
```

### List installed plugins

```bash
grafana-cli plugins ls
```

### Update all installed plugins
```bash
grafana-cli plugins update-all
```

### Update one plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins update <plugin-id>
```

### Remove one plugin

```bash
grafana-cli plugins remove <plugin-id>
```

## Admin commands

Admin commands are only available in Grafana 4.1 and later.

### Show all admin commands

```bash
grafana-cli admin
```

### Reset admin password

`grafana-cli admin reset-admin-password <new password>` resets the password for the admin user using the CLI. You might need to do this if you lose the admin password.

If there are two flags being used to set the homepath and the config file path, then running the command returns this error:

> Could not find config defaults, make sure homepath command line parameter is set or working directory is homepath 

To correct this, use the `--homepath` global option to specify the Grafana default homepath for this command:

```bash
grafana-cli --homepath "/usr/share/grafana" admin reset-admin-password <new password>
```

> If you have not lost the admin password then it is better to set it in the Grafana UI. ((HOW DO I DO THIS? I CANNOT FIND INSTRUCTIONS IN THE DOCS, NOTHING OBVIOUS IN UI.))

Author: @daniellee? @torkelo? Can you answer this?

Reviewer 3: There is a change password tab in user profile page, and there is a password section in the server admin / users / user details page

Author: I found it 
![example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52059945/71837441-45dd8200-306b-11ea-9c6d-18e8dd90c747.png)

Reviewer 3: that is not the server admin / users / user details page but the organization user list. Have click the shield icon to go the server admin section

Author: Got it! Thanks, @torkelo. Change incoming shortly.

# Grafana CLI

Grafana CLI is a small executable that is bundled with Grafana server and is supposed to be executed on the same machine Grafana server is running on.

Grafana CLI has `plugins ` and `admin` commands, as well as global options.

To list all commands and options:
```
grafana-cli -h
```

**Linux users**
Some commands, such as installing or removing plugins, require `sudo` in order to run.

**Windows users**

> Enter commands in Windows PowerShell, preceded by `.\`. They will not work in the command line.

Author: MSG agrees with you. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/command-line

Changed in to on.

Some commands, such as installing or removing plugins, require you to run Windows PowerShell as Administrator. 

Before you enter commands, `cd` into the plugins directory. The default path is:
```

> cd "C:\Program Files\GrafanaLabs\grafana\bin"

Author: Apparently not, since the grafana-cli commands only worked when I was in the bin directory.

> cd "C:\Program Files\GrafanaLabs\grafana\bin"

Author: @daniellee, do you want changes to this doc based on your comment?

> cd "C:\Program Files\GrafanaLabs\grafana\bin"

Reviewer 2: I think the Powershell section is confusing. I used Windows for years and mostly never used the Powershell terminal so I would add `If using Powershell` and not assume that everyone is using it.

I'm not sure what the second sentence means here as you can run commands on the regular command line:

`Enter commands in Windows PowerShell, preceded by `.\`. They will not work on the regular command line.`

```

**Mac users**

> ANY SPECIAL NOTES FOR MAC USERS?

Author: @marcusolsson , can you test?

```bash
grafana-cli --pluginUrl https://company.com/grafana/plugins/<plugin-id>-<plugin-version>.zip plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Override Transport Layer Security

`--insecure` allows you to turn off Transport Layer Security (TLS) verification (insecure). You might want to do this if you are downloading a plugin from a non-default source.

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --insecure --pluginUrl https://company.com/grafana/plugins/<plugin-id>-<plugin-version>.zip plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Enable debug logging

`--debug` or `-d` enables debug logging.
> Where does is the log stored? Why would you want to use this? Is my example in any way realistic?      

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --debug plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### --configOverrides value  
> In plain terms, what does this mean?
Configuration options to override defaults as a string. For example: cfg:default.paths.log=/dev/null

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --configOverrides cfg:default.paths.log=/dev/null plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### --homepath value         
> In plain terms, what does this mean?
Sets the path for the Grafana install/home path, defaults to working directory.

> > Why would you want to use this? Is my example in any way realistic?  

Reviewer 2: You would not want this for installing plugins. The plugin commands are manipulating files (downloading and extracting them into the plugins directory or deleteing files from the plugins directory). 

This is a dark and murky part of Grafana. The `homepath` flag is needed when doing something with the database - like resetting the admin password. This is a technical implementation detail that has been exposed and makes life difficult for the user. The CLI needs to know where Grafana is installed to get the config file, which is needed to get the database login details.

This will work without the `homepath` flag if you are in the Grafana directory when using the CLI.

See here for examples of the problems this has caused: https://community.grafana.com/t/admin-password-reset/19455/9 and https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/12638

Author: Updated.

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --homepath value plugins install <plugin-id>
```

### Override config file         

`--config value` overrides the default location where Grafana expects the configuration file. Refer to [Configuration]({{< relref "configuration.md" >}}) for more information about configuring Grafana and default configuration file locations.

> > Why would you want to use this? Is my example in any way realistic?

Reviewer 2: Mostly the same as the comment about `homepath`. If the config file is not in a standard location relative to where Grafana is located then this flag might be needed too.

Author: Updated. Please check my syntax.

### Enable debug logging

`--debug` or `-d` enables debug logging. Debug output is returned and shown in the terminal.  

**Example:**
```bash
grafana-cli --debug plugins install <plugin-id>
```

> ### Override a configuration setting  

Author: @daniellee , please take a look at this one.

Reviewer 2: When starting Grafana, you have several layers when it comes to configuration. You can use a couple of command line arguments to the Grafana server binary, the config file contains most of the settings and lastly environmental variables can override config file settings.

`configOverrides` is a weird command line argument for the cli binary that acts like an environmental variable override. The only good use cases I can think of are to redirect logging to another file (maybe to log plugin installs in a service like Hosted Grafana) or when resetting the admin password and you have non-default values for some important config value (like where the database is located).

Author: Updated.
